Google's 2021 search list: Bernie Sanders' mittens and Squid Game top the trends.
Annual list reveals most searched-for terms globally related to sports, investing, Covid and skinny jeans.
Squid Game, Bernie Sanders' mittens and how to wear skinny jeans were among the most searched for subjects on Google around the world this year, and in the UK the Euros dominated web queries. 
The annual search trends list released by Google showed that Squid Game, the  with bloody South Korean smash hit on Netflix, was the most searched-for TV show, while the knitted gloves worn by Sanders, a former US presidential candidate, at Joe Biden's inauguration ensured that searches for mittens reached a global high in January. 
The mitten memes turned into a search hit too, along, for the more sartorially progressive, the query "how to style straight leg jeans". 
Indian cricket fans ensured that their national team featured in the most searched-for overall term in 2021, which was "Australia v India "as a Test series came to a close at the beginning of the year. 
In the UK, sport dominated too, with the Euros the top overall search term and the footballer Christian Eriksen, who suffered a mid-game cardiac arrest at the tournament, the most searched-for footballer (and most searched-for athlete globally). 
The most numerous "when? "questions in the UK related to "When will lockdown end? ", reflecting anxiety over the renewed anti-Covid measures at the start of 2021. 
Matt Hancock, who resigned as health secretary in June, was the most searched meme in the UK. 
The top five overall searches globally were all sport-dominated, with the Australia v India series followed by India v England, IPL [Indian Premier League], NBA and Euro 2021. 
Globally, Afghanistan was the top news search, and "Covid vaccine "made up the third most searched-for term for news. 
The other three entries in the top five overall reflected strong interest from amateur investors, as "AMC stock "came second thanks to small shareholders rallying online to invest in the cinema chain, and in fifth place was "GME stock ", the stockmarket ticker for the video game retailer GameStop whose stock rose to vertiginous levels via an online community on Reddit message boards. 
Dogecoin, the cryptocurrency favoured by Tesla's CEO, Elon Musk, came fourth. 
Alec Baldwin, the actor involved in the accidental onset shooting of the cinematographer Halyna Hutchins, was the most searched-for actor and person globally this year. 
The most searched-for death was that of DMX, the New York rapper who died of a heart attack in April. 
The results for TV shows underlined the global dominance of the streaming platforms. 
Squid Game was followed by another Netflix smash, Bridgerton, the racy regency drama that dominated the cultural conversation to the extent that it was a surprise another show was able to overtake it. 
Third was WandaVision, the Avengers spin-off that helped spur the growing popularity of the Disney+ platform, followed by the martial arts drama Cobra Kai on Netflix, and another Disney + Avengers effort, Loki. 
American artists also dominated song searches, with Olivia Rodrigo's single drivers license coming top, followed by Lil Nas X's album Montero and song Industry Baby, Walker Hayes' song Fancy Like, and MAPA by the Filipino boy band SB19. 
A moment that changed me: I lost my dream job - and found unexpected success. 
After 26 years as a local journalist, being made redundant was devastating. 
But then came a surprising opportunity. 
At noon on 29 April 2015, I was under the cathedra-like ceiling of the magnificent Waterstones building in Bradford, my phone ringing again and again. 
I ignored it. 
I was a journalist for the city's Telegraph & Argus, and was judging a children's book review competition I had organised. 
I can't even remember my job title - it was assistant editor (something something). 
I had ignored the sage advice of an editor from aeons earlier - "Never take a job title with brackets in it " - and slid into a role involving admin, meetings, competitions, and lots and lots of dealings with the commercial side of newspapers, rather than editorial. 
For that reason, I thought I was fireproof. 
Of course, I was wrong. 
When I finally answered my phone, I was told to get back to the office immediately. 
I imagined there was some huge breaking news story that required all hands on deck, something perhaps even of 9 proportions. 
Until the deputy editor said: "Don't go to the newsroom, come to HR. "
The world of newspapers had seduced me when I was 14 and - don't laugh - saw All The President's Men on the TV. 
I would never be a Woodward or a Bernstein. 
But being a Barnett in the local press was enough for me. 
The height of my ambition was to work not for the Washington Post, but for my home town paper, the Wigan Evening Post. 
This was a glamorous prospect after being educated in a working-class comprehensive school where the teachers did their best, but the major career paths were still the pit, the army and jail. 
I eschewed university and, at 18, started a nine-month course by the National Council for the Training of Journalists at Lancashire Polytechnic in Preston (now UCLan). 
In May 1989, at 19, I started my first job, as a trainee reporter at the Chorley Guardian. 
Over the next 26 years, I worked constantly in local newspapers in the north of England, including the Wigan Evening Post. 
In my 20s, journalism was my work, my social life and my found family, all wrapped up together. 
I loved local journalism unconditionally, even when it treated me badly, with low pay, long hours and often unreasonable requests: five "death knocks "(the journo term for contacting relatives of the deceased) in one day? 
Walking around Preston in a Dorothy Perkins skirt? 
I had developed a form of Stockholm syndrome. 
Local papers had kidnapped me from what most people would consider a normal life, yet I adored them for it. 
Until the day I was told it was over. 
I stood outside the office, chain-smoking and cycling through an emotional roulette wheel. 
I was angry, because I worked hard and I was an award-winning journalist. 
I was devastated, as if a partner I had devoted myself to for more than a quarter of a century had suddenly told me they didn't love me any more. 
I felt a crashing sense of impostor syndrome. 
Had I been fooling myself all these years? 
Was I not as good as I thought? 
Had I finally been found out? 
While everyone who worked in newspapers agreed the job was shit, we didn't really mean it. 
I felt as if I had been kicked out of the best game in town. 
But more than anything, I was terrified about the future. 
On one level, I had become institutionalised, while local newspapers were slimming down their staffing levels across the board. 
I was 45-what was I going to do for the rest of my life? 
On a more practical level, what was I going to do for the rest of the year? 
Although being assistant editor (something something) brought with it a relatively decent salary in local newspaper terms and my wife was working full-time, we had a mortgage and two small children. 
Also, my generally chaotic financial management, which meant we usually lurched from payday to payday, had come back to bite me on the arse with the unrelenting grip of a doberman. 
My wife was more upbeat. 
"Now you can do what you've always wanted to do, "she said. 
"Go freelance. 
Work for the nationals. 
Do what you love: write."
So I did. 
I worked for another month, drifting like a ghost around the newsroom, feeling like people were avoiding me, as though redundancy were contagious. 
I almost crumbled under the weight of self-doubt. 
I knew the decisions leading to my redundancy were financial ones, but still the thought remained: if I was any good, if anyone actually liked me, then surely someone would have fought to keep me in my job? 
There was only one way to crawl out of that particular hole, and it was what my wife had told me to do: write. 
One of the authors recently visited an acquaintance's house, where he sat in an exceptionally comfortable chair, offering unmatched fit and support. 
After the visit, the author tried to find the exact same model on the manufacturer's website, but found himself browsing through dozens of similar-looking chairs, guided only by a fuzzy recollection of the shape and size of the chair in which he sat earlier. 
Such product search experiences appear quite common.
Indeed, a survey we conducted suggests that a majority of consumers have occasionally tried to visually identify a previously encountered product among numerous similar options examined sequentially (see web appendix A). 
In such cases, what influences consumers' likelihood of correctly identifying the target product when they finally encounter it in their search? 
Despite the everyday prevalence of such experiences — which we label "product lineups" — little prior research has examined them directly.
Previous work has examined how memory impacts product recognition (Bettman 1979), how advertisements influence recall (Norris and Colman 1992), how the size of the set under consideration influences decision quality and satisfaction (Diehl 2005; Diehl and Poynor 2010), and factors that affect how long consumers search for the lowest price (Rowley 2000; Stigler 1961; Titus and Everett 1995). 
Little is known, however, about how the internal dynamics of product search experiences may influence the accuracy with which consumers are able to identify a previously encountered target product embedded in a sequence of relevant but incorrect options.
We examine how identification accuracy is influenced by the dynamics of the sequential search experience itself. 
Specifically, we propose that as consumers screen options to find the product they encountered before, their internal matching threshold (i.e., the level of perceived fit beyond which they conclude that they have found the option for which they have been looking) becomes progressively higher.
This elevated matching threshold leads consumers to be more likely to falsely reject the true target for which they have been looking when they finally encounter it 
(i.e., to misidentify the correct product as incorrect).
Consequently, screening more options makes consumers more conservative judges, but — ironically — it may also make them less likely to correctly identify the true target.
We hypothesize that consumers' matching threshold may escalate because each time consumers evaluate a relevant option in a product lineup and judge it to be incorrect, they draw an implicit inference that the true target must feel even more familiar or right than the options screened up to that point. 
That is, people's implicit expectation for the level of felt fit between the correct target and the representation they hold in their memory is ratcheted up each time they dismiss an option that does not feel sufficiently right.
This research makes several contributions. 
First, it introduces the notion of product lineups and examines a novel process that influences the accuracy with which consumers are able to identify options. 
Second, it extends prior research on visual recognition, specifically as it applies to recognizing a previously seen item among multiple lookalikes.
Third, the findings advance understanding of mechanism that may bias respondents' identification accuracy in other contexts beyond product identification, such as police lineups (see Reisberg 2014 for a review). 
Consumers often visually search for a product they encountered previously without knowing its exact name.
Whether we see a product in an advertisement but fail to register the name of the brand, observe others using an attractive product but are reluctant or unable to ask for details, or directly experience a high-quality product, we often later find ourselves looking for the specific product we encountered before.
Consumers often wish to find a specific product they saw earlier, rather than an alternative, because they believe that particular option would deliver high quality or performance (e.g., athletic gear or technical equipment), convey a social signal or another symbolic trait 
(e.g., a fashion statement, fitting in), or satisfy their curiosity regarding the previously encountered item, even if they are open to buying something else eventually.
In all these scenarios, consumers may try to visually identify a specific brand, model, or product among many lookalikes (to which we refer here as "lures"), guided only by a fuzzy recollection of the previously encountered target. 
Screening options in a sequential product lineup is, by definition, a product search task.
However, it differs from the prototypical task examined in many classic works on consumer search (Hoch, Bradlow, and Wansink 1999).
Such work has typically focused on how long the consumer continues to search, given a search cost, until finding an option that is good enough (e.g., meets the consumer's reservation price, which is often unknown and determined on the fly).
In contrast, we examine situations where consumers try to assess the visual match between the options they encounter in the search and a representation they hold in memory of a specific item encountered previously (i.e., "is this what I have seen before?").
Further, although consumers' preferences or ideal points may sometimes shift during search, as consumers discover new features or options (Hauser, Dong, and Ding 2014), preferences are less likely to shift in the situations we described above, where consumers strive to identify a specific previously encountered product, regardless of how attractive other items in the lineup appear to be. 
Thus, the current research holds preference constant during the search process and focuses on identification accuracy.
This makes product lineups conceptually similar to visual recognition problems in which respondents are asked to determine whether a stimulus (e.g., an image) presented to them has or has not been previously seen (Benjamin and Bawa 2004; Meissner et al.; Palmer and Brewer 2012; Segal and Fusella, 1970). 
Visual recognition research has often used signal detection theory as a conceptual framework for understanding visual recognition effects. 
We briefly review some of the basic assumptions of this theory, which we use as a basis for developing our predictions. 
According to signal detection models, any given stimulus can be thought of as positioned along a continuum of familiarity or strength of evidence, where previously encountered items are positioned higher than lures or distractors not previously encountered (Green and Swets 1966; Palmer and Brewer 2012; Pleskac 2007; Snodgrass, Volvovitz, and Walfish 1972; Wixted 2007).	 
These models suggest that people base their identification judgments on some internal criterion, or threshold, for the strength of evidence they require (i.e., the degree of perceived match).
A stimulus is judged to have been seen before if its level of perceived match exceeds the internal decision threshold. 
Novel items typically give rise to lower levels of perceived match, which increases the likelihood that they be judged as novel, whereas the opposite is true for previously encountered items. 
This basic notion of threshold-based judgment is also a central tenet of global memory models (Ashby and Perrin 1988; Eich 1982; Gillund and Shiffrin 1984; Nosofsky and Zaki 2003), which assume that any stimulus gives rise to some level of felt familiarity when encountered by a respondent. 
The identification decision thus depends on where the threshold is located. 
A stringent threshold implies that a higher level of perceived match is required to elicit a yes response (Palmer and Brewer 2012), which decreases the likelihood of false identification but also that of correctly identifying the true target. 
A lax threshold increases the chances of false identification but also that of correctly identifying the true target (i.e., anything that looks reasonably similar to the stored representation will be judged as a  match). 
Note that threshold location does not necessarily entail, in and of itself, a change in discriminability or decision accuracy (Palmer and Brewer 2012). 
A well-established finding is that threshold placement is malleable (Brown, Lewis, and Monk 1977; Hirshman 1995). 
Matching threshold often shifts as a result of cues that are independent of the evaluation process, such as providing respondents with accuracy feedback (Rhodes and Jacoby 2007), instructions to use a more stringent or more lax threshold (Estes and Maddox 1995), time delay between target encoding and the identification task (Singer, Gagnon, and Richards 2002; Singer and Wixted 2006), the perceived difficulty of recognition (Benjamin and Bawa 2004), and people's beliefs regarding their own memory (Miller and Wolford 1999; Verde and Rotello 2007).
Whereas prior research has mostly focused on external cues that affect this threshold, we explore how the internal dynamics of the task (i.e., having already rejected incorrect items) may also influence the threshold  placement.
We propose that consumers ’ internal matching threshold may progressively shift as a result of mismatch judgments on prior items (i.e., lures).
In particular, we propose a novel mechanism where the more decision-makers reject similar but incorrect lures, the more stringent their matching threshold becomes. Consequently, decision-makers become increasingly likely to erroneously reject the correct target when it is finally encountered.
We argue that each time decision-makers evaluate whether an option in a product lineup is the product seen earlier, and judge it to be different (i.e., falling below their internal matching threshold), they come to expect the correct target to provide a greater feeling of fit or rightness (Cesario, Grant, and Higgins 2004; Schwarz 2006). That is, people may reasonably infer that the correct target, when encountered, should feel significantly more familiar than any incorrect lure. Our prediction is consistent with the notion that judgments of a target often shift disproportionately in a direction opposite to a comparison standard from which an item is perceived as different (Ford and Thompson 2000; Mussweiler 2003; Sherif and Hovland 1961; Shoots-Reinhard et al. 2014; Zellner et al. 2003). For example, liking of a positive stimulus is amplified following a less positive stimulus (Dolese et al. 2005; Parker et al. 2008); and after consumers view a moving target, a new target must move even faster in the same direction to appear to be in motion (Warren 1985). Extending this logic, we predict that after consumers judge a similar lure in a product lineup as incorrect, they may expect the correct target to feel even more familiar, by way of contrast. Consequently, after rejecting a lure, their internal matching threshold should escalate. Namely, subsequent candidates have to feel even more right to be judged as correct.
We further propose that this inference is inflated each time another lure is evaluated in a sequence. Prior research underscores the effect of repetition on inflated perceptions and evaluations. 
For example, mere repetition of attitude expression induces attitude polarization (Downing, Judd, and Brauer 1992; Fazio et al. 1982) and inflates attitude conviction and certainty (Holland, Verplanken, and van Knippenberg 2003). Similarly, thinking more about an object leads to more extreme evaluations (Tesser and Leone 1977; Tesser, Martin, and Mendolia 1995). This inflationthrough-repetition principle has been observed both for nonevaluative and evaluative judgments (see Judd and Brauer 1995 for a review). Because judging and dismissing lures in a product lineup is inherently reiterative, we predict that rejecting a longer sequence of lures will result in more pronounced threshold escalation, compared with a shorter sequence., the more decision-makers reject similar but incorrect items in a product lineup, the higher their internal matching threshold becomes. 
How might such ratcheting up of the internal threshold impact identification accuracy? Ironically, although threshold escalation makes decision-makers more conservative, it may also decrease their identification accuracy because it requires a stronger feeling of familiarity for an item to be considered the correct target (Palmer and Brewer 2012). 
Perceptual memory is often fuzzy and noisy (Krueger 1978; Schacter 1999), particularly for targets that are not highly familiar (Hockley 2008; Megreya and Burton 2007; Stretch and Wixted 1998).
The stored representation of the original target may also be distorted due to various perceptual or attitudinal factors (Beckwith and Lehmann 1975; Huber and Holbrook 1979). 
Consequently, the benchmark upon which the matching threshold is based is itself unstable and largely constructed (Whittlesea, Jacoby, and Girard 1990).